DOCS-5460 Update organizations overview to better explain orgs and org features (#873)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/organizations/verified-domains.mdx

---
title: Verified domains
description: Learn about how to use verified domains for organizations.
---

# Verified domains

> Verified domains can be used to streamline enrollment into an organization. For example, if the domain `@clerk.com` is verified, any user with an email address ending in `@clerk.com` can be automatically invited or be suggested to join an organization with that domain. This feature is useful for organizations that want to restrict membership to users with specific email domains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verified domains can be used to streamline enrollment into an organization. For example, if the domain `@clerk.com` is added to an organization, any user with a `@clerk.com` email address can be automatically invited or be suggested to join this organization. This feature is useful for organizations that want to restrict membership to users with specific email domains. See the [verified domains](/docs/organizations/verified-domains) documentation for more information.
````

In order to enable this feature:

1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=organizations-settings)
2. In the navigation sidebar, select **Organizations Settings**.
3. In the **Verified domains** section, check the **Enable verified domains** checkbox.
4. The following settings will appear:
  - [**Enrollment mode**](#enrollment-mode) - Choose between `automatic_invitation` and `automatic_suggestion`.
  - [**Default role**](#default-role) - Choose the default role for users who join the organization through a verified domain.

### Enrollment mode

You can enable the following enrollment modes to be available for your application:

- `automatic_invitation` - During sign-up, a user will receive an invitation for the organization if their email's domain matches the verified domain. The user will join the organization if they accept the automatic invitation.
- `automatic_suggestion` - During sign-up, a user will receive a suggestion for the organization if their email's domain matches the verified domain. The user can request to join, and an administrator must accept this request before the user can join the organization.

> Once a domain is created and verified in your application, an administrator will have the option to enable whichever enrollment modes you made available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a domain is added and verified in your organization, the user will have the option to select an enrollment mode from those you made available.
````

### Default role

> Once verified domains are enabled, you are required to define which role will be assigned to the user that will receive the organization invitation or organization suggestions in order to join your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once verified domains are enabled, you are required to define which role will be assigned to the user that will receive the organization invitation or organization suggestion in order to join your organization.
```

By default, the options are "Member" and "Admin". However, you can also [create custom roles for your organization](/docs/organizations/create-roles-permissions).

<Callout type="warning">
  You can't delete an organization role if it's used as the verified domain's default role.
</Callout>

## Adding and verifying domains

> Domains can be added and verified under an organization by an organization administrator. The easiest way to do so is by using Clerk's [`<OrganizationSwitcher />`] component. In the **General** tab, there will be a **Verified domains** section where you can add and verify domains.

Reviewer: This is not restricted to organization admins. Any user with the proper permission `org:sys_domains:manage` can do it

> Domains can be verified through an email verification code sent to an email that matches the domain. If the administrator adding the domain already has a verified email using that domain in their account, the domain will be automatically verified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Domains can be verified through an email verification code sent to an email that matches the domain. If the user adding the domain already has a verified email using that domain in their account, the domain will be automatically verified.
```
